responsibilities given to the RAM as far
as interior run while pushing position
in him in a place where it looks like he
has outside contain the whip is in a
position on the weak side exactly
opposite of the stud linebacker
basically in a5 technique versus a
tackle a nine technique technique versus
are tied in with outside container
responsibilities similar to the stud the
tackles are going to be in a four I
technique this changes them from their
base alignment puts them on an inside
position allowing them to have a B gap
of attack if there is no tight end they
slide down to a three technique similar
to where they would be if they were in
base the nose guard goes to a zero
technique a head up position on the
center and with the in conjunction with
the Mike linebacker has a weak a gap of
attack he's going to be in a position
that's gonna cause him or allow him to
create a lot of havoc when it comes to
the offensive line and their movement
especially pulling lineman let's go to
some cut ups now of the three five in
some actual game situations in this
particular situation you're gonna see a
double wing offense where where you have
obviously a run dominated type of
offense here's our outs are our strong
safety stepping up as a bandit
linebacker the RAM linebacker moving
over to the strong side with the tight
in and the wing and our outside
linebackers up on the line of scrimmage
as they normally would be in base in
this particular situation you've got ten
offensive players in the box obviously
we need to match that with a lot of
numbers
you're gonna see a lot of confusion a
lot of congestion on the line of
scrimmage and the resulting one-yard
gain in that particular situation that's
a great defensive play this next play is
the same situation you've got